# MeetingStats

Many open source projects have weekly meetings and it's important to know
that the relevant teams are showing up and reporting the expected data.

[meeting_stats](../bin/meeting_stats.rb) will allow you to record the results
of a meeting and then generate a report, including images with trends over
time.

You will **definitely** want a config file to make this useful for your
project, and you can see
[examples/meeting_stats_config.rb](../examples/meeting_stats_config.rb) for an
example.

Note that the teams list is just an initial list for creating the database. The
list in the config is ignored once the database is created, and you can
add/remove/rename teams from the cli.

It keeps all data in a SQLite DB. You can specify where this is with
`--db-file`, and the default is `./data/meeting_data.sqlite3`.

All CLI options can be specified in the config file.

There are several modes, discussed below.

## Modes

### Generate

This mode generates the markdown file with a table for every meeting and graphs
at the top to show statistics over time.The markdown file is written to stdout
by default, unless `--output` is specified.

This mode is activated with `--mode generate`.

This mode implicitly runs the `generate_plot` mode to regenerate the graph
images.  See the section on that mode for more details.

### Generate Plot

This mode regenerate the plot graphs that show data over time (which are linked
in the Markdown generated by `generate` mode). These graphs are written to
`./images` by default, but you can change this with `--image-dir`.

This mode is activated with `--mode generate_plot`.

### Summary

This mode print short summary of the last three meetings in Slack-friendly
Markdown format. Sample output is:

```markdown
* 2025-06-05:
    * Teams reported: 7 out of 7 (100%)
    * Teams reporting build status: 6 out of 7 (85.71%)
* 2025-05-29:
    * Teams reported: 7 out of 7 (100%)
    * Teams reporting build status: 6 out of 7 (85.71%)
* 2025-05-22:
    * Teams reported: 7 out of 7 (100%)
    * Teams reporting build status: 6 out of 7 (85.71%)
```

### Record

This mode is how you feed data into the database. It will prompt you to select
a team, and then ask information such as if they were present, and if they
reported their build status. Then it'll ask you to pick another team, and will
repeat until you hit `q`, at which point it'll prompt to commit the new meeting
information to the database.

It defaults to the most recent Thursday for historical reasons, use `--date` to
specify the date of the meeting.
